Before clarifying directly the need for measurement I will ask everyone to know its meaning. Measurement is a process of quantifying things around us. It is used to find the extent of some impacts by means of some standard systems of units and also used to restrict their values within extreme limits. A vernier calliper for example is used to measure the internal and external diameters of the cylindrical objects, a screw gauge used to measure the thickness of wires and cables with precision.
Because a number of properties of matter on planet earth have their lowest and highest extremes that can affect living beings including us, so we should be aware of the processes by which we can measure these extreme types. As these extreme environments are not to be favorable for our survival.
At zero degree Celsius water exist in freeze state. No one can withstand such cold weather with ease. Near to forty five degree or higher than forty five weather, condition will not be favorable for brain cells and lung alveoli. At what extreme of altitude above the sea level we can’t breathe with ease we should be aware of and so should have a measure of it. In terms of oxygen’s partial pressures there, the oxygen depletion should be measured and marked as a live atmospheric safety indicator.
In many scientific studies we need high precision calculations. So a system of units for precise quantification of both extremes of properties of matter, we need all the tools and techniques of measurement. Not only the measurement of properties of these is important but also the change in the properties of one matter and dependency of change of that in the values of other kind of matter is also very much important.
By measuring the rate of consumption of fossil fuels by humans we can together reverse the rising temperature of the globe. A measure is in fact not only a scientific measure or measurement of physical properties, but is also a measure of prevention for the Future’s well being of Earth’s Ecosystems.
Read my next very brief post (Future well-being of human civilization and Earth’s Ecosystems) as a continuation to this one.